------------------------------------------------------------
                     README for kdconv
------------------------------------------------------------

NAME
     kdconv -- PDF optimizer for Kindle2/3/DX.

SYNOPSIS
     kdconv [-a author] [-cdeotv] [-p kindledir] input-pdf output-pdf

PLATFORM
     - MacOS X 10.6 and later(earlier version is not tested)
     - Kindle2(KindleDX is not tested.)

DESCRIPTION
     kdconv is a program for converting a PDF document into a Kindle
     friendly format.

     Kindle2/3 can display PDF documents, but, especially if the file
     contains data as image format, it is hard to display correctly in
     some image size.  This program converts a PDF document which is
     specified as input-pdf into Kindle friendly size and easy-to-read
     effects, then it produces the result as output-pdf.  Usually this
     process reduces the file size.

     Kindle2/3 uses PDF file name which is eliminated tail .pdf as the
     title name, so you should specify output-pdf with conscious this
     behavior.

     If pdftk is installed in your environment, this program uses pdftk
     to embed title meta data into the PDF, which is generated from
     output-pdf with eliminating tail .pdf.  Also you can embed creator
     with specifying some option.  With embedding creator, the value
     will be shown as an author at the file list of Kindle.

     In addition, you can eliminate extra space, and transfer the file
     into Kindle automatically.

     This program can convert the input-pdf to KindleDX friendly, but
     this function is not tested because of not my having it.

PREPARATION
     This program depends on below programs.  Please install them into a
     directory where in your PATH with using MacPorts so on.

     - ghostscript(8.71 and layer)
     - ImageMagick(6.6.1 and later)
     - pdftk(1.12 and later.  Optional)

     For example, if you'd like to install with MacPorts in default
     setting:

              sudo port install ghostscript ImageMagick pdftk

     As of April 13, 2010, MacPorts can not install pdftk because of gcc
     build problem which pdftk depends.  There are a link for ver.1.12
     binary at pdftk web page, so you can use it.  The pdftk web page
     is:

              <http://www.accesspdf.com/pdftk/>

     If you do not have pdftk, you can not embed an author name into
     meta data, which is provided by -a option, but other functions work
     well.

     If you finish installing related programs, you should put kdconv
     into a PATH searchable directory and set execute attribute.  For
     example, if you'd like to install /opt/local/bin:

              sudo install kdconv /opt/local/bin

OPTIONS
     -a AUTHOR
             Set PDF's creator.  Kindle uses this value as an author.
             This option is available if pdftk is installed.

     -c      After PDF convert is finished, the converted file will be
             transferred into Kindle documents directory.  You have to
             connect Kindle into your Mac beforehand.  If Kindle is not
             connected, do nothing with showing warning.  If
             output-pdf contains directory name, this options uses the
             file name part of it only.

      -d     Convert to KindleDX friendly size.

      -e     After copy is finished, this program tries to eject Kindle
             automatically.  Without -c option, this option has no
             effect.

      -o     In spite of already existing output-pdf file, this option
             allows to overwrite it.  If you do not specify this option,
             and if a file which has same name already exists, this
             program stops with error messages.

      -p     Set path for 'documents' directory of Kindle.  Default
             value is '/Volumes/Kindle/documents'.

      -t     Tries to eliminate extra space around the input-pdf.
             Trimmed area will be decided based on corner pixels
             color.

      -v     Show version.

EXAMPLES
     Convert foo.pdf to bar.pdf:

              kdconv foo.pdf bar.pdf

     Convert sample.pdf to My document.pdf and copy it to Kindle
     automatically, then eject Kindle:

              kdconv -c -e sample.pdf My\ document.pdf

     Convert 1.pdf to out.pdf with trimming extra space, and allow to
     overwrite it if out.pdf already exists:

              kdconv -t -o 1.pdf out.pdf

BUGS
     Please report bugs to below AUTHOR section's address.

     If an original PDF is created with vector format data, generated
     file's view area will be reduced than original one, or not easy-to
     read file.

     It's fairly infrequently occurred, but converting might not be
     finished with wrong run of ImageMagick's convert command.  Please
     stop to covert and retry it.

SPECIAL THANKS
     I appreciate follow people who contribute useful information
     and/or patch for enhancing script.

     Noriaki Mitsunaga-san:
     - sends me useful patch for making the script generalize and
       more comfortable resolution information for Kindle 2/3.

     @toplut-san:
     - inform me that output method of pdftk does not treat non-ascii
       character filename.

AUTHOR
     E-Mail: n-miyo@tempus.org
     Twitter: nmiyo
     Blog: http://blogger.tempus.org/

; EOF
